Add authentication documentation (#950)
pi-hole/docs: docs/api/auth.md

# API Reference: Authentication

Authentication is required for most API endpoints. The Pi-hole API uses a session-based authentication system. This means that you will not be able to use a static token to authenticate your requests. Instead, you will be given a session ID (SID) that you will have to use. If you didn't set a password for your Pi-hole, you don't have to authenticate your requests.

> To get a session ID, you will have to send a `POST` request to the `/api/auth` endpoint with a payload either containing your password. Note that is also possible to use an application password instead of your regular password, e.g., if you don't want to put your password in your scripts or if you have 2FA enabled for your regular password. Application passwords can be generated in the web interface on the settings page.

Author: That's true. Maybe "The application password..." would be even clearer here but your suggestion is fine, too.

            res = curl_easy_perform(curl);

            curl_easy_cleanup(curl);
          }

          curl_global_cleanup();

          return 0;
        }
        ```

    **Parameters**

    Specify either your password or an application password as `password` in the payload.

???+ success "Success response"

    Response code: `HTTP/1.1 200 OK`

    ```json
    {
      "session": {
        "valid": true,
        "totp": false,
        "sid": "vFA+EP4MQ5JJvJg+3Q2Jnw=",
        "csrf": "Ux87YTIiMOf/GKCefVIOMw=",
        "validity": 300
      },
      "took": 0.0002
    }
    ```

???+ failure "Error response"

    Response code: `HTTP/1.1 401 - Unauthorized`

    ```json
    {
      "error": {
        "key": "unauthorized",
        "message": "Unauthorized",
        "hint": null
      },
      "took": 0.003
    }
    ```

On success, this will return a JSON object containing the session ID (SID) and the time until your session expires (in seconds).
You can use this SID from this point to authenticate your requests to the API.

## Use the SID to access API endpoints

Once you have a valid SID, you can use it to authenticate your requests. You can do this in four different ways:

> 1. In the request URI: `http://pi.hole/admin/api.php?sid=vFA+EP4MQ5JJvJg+3Q2Jnw=`

Reviewer: I tried various ways to get the sid using method 1 and was never able to do it. In the end, I used a Chrome plugin to modify the header. If the example could return a result, like top domains, it may be more instructive.

        });

        xhr.open("DELETE", "https://pi.hole/admin/api/auth?sid=vFA+EP4MQ5JJvJg+3Q2Jnw=");
        xhr.send(data);
        ```

    === "Javascript (jQuery)"

        ``` javascript
        $.ajax({
          url: "https://pi.hole/admin/api/auth",
          type: "DELETE",
          data: null,
          dataType: "json",
          contentType: "application/json",
          headers: {
            "X-FTL-SID": "vFA+EP4MQ5JJvJg+3Q2Jnw="
          }
        }).done(function(data) {
          console.log(data);
        }).fail(function(xhr, status, error) {
          console.log(error);
        });
        ```

    **Parameters**

    Specify the SID in one of the four ways described above.

???+ success "Success response"

    Response code: `HTTP/1.1 410 - Gone`

    No content

Remember, it's important to manage your sessions properly to maintain the security of your Pi-hole API.

## Rate Limiting

The Pi-hole API implements a rate-limiting mechanism to prevent abuse. This means that you can try a certain number of login attempts per second. If you exceed this limit, you will receive a `429 Too Many Requests` response.

## Limited number of concurrent sessions

> The Pi-hole API only allows a limited number of concurrent sessions. This means that if you try to login with a new session while the maximum number of sessions is already active, you may be denied access. This is to prevent abuse and resource exhaustion. In case you hit this limit, please make sure to logout from your sessions when you don't need them anymore as this will free up API slots for future requests. Unused sessions will be automatically terminated after a certain amount of time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Pi-hole API only allows a hard-coded limit of 16 concurrent sessions. This means that if you try to login with a new session while the maximum number of sessions is already active, you may be denied access. This is to prevent abuse and resource exhaustion. In case you hit this limit, please make sure to logout from your sessions when you don't need them anymore as this will free up API slots for future requests. Unused sessions will be automatically terminated after a certain amount of time.
```

Author: I did intentionally not specify this here as we may change this in the future or even give users the ability to set the number of maximum concurrent sessions on their own will.
